What questions must you answer before you start developing reports? Write at least 5 of them.

1.	The client requests one table to be able to receive data from different databases. How will you do it?
- You can prompt user for credentials, server name, database and so on. I made report "DataSourceTest.rdl" to test it.

2.	The client requests one table to be able to receive data from different databases so that the names of servers and databases may
change during the usage. How will you do it?
- Same. But maybe it is better to connect to "main" database and use Stored Procedure to do whatever you want there.

3.	There are several dozen frequently used reports. You need to create new reports and periodically refine older ones. The client proposes
to use SQL queries directly from the report, speaking in favor of the existing practice and organizational challenges of creating stored
procedure. What will you say to them?
- We need to consider pros and cons.

4.	What happens if you start a report where the parameters have default values? Please write about one scenario where this is helpful
and another one where it’s not.
- If all parameters have values report will execute and show results. It is helpful if it runs very fast. That would be a pain to wait
for data you dont even want for several minutes.

5.	The client requests some parameters to be optional. How should you use a procedure in this case?
- I will send special values when parameters are not used like 0 for ID or "default" for string.

1.	The client request good looking and creative reports that their customers will like. What can you offer them? What clarifying questions
you need to ask the client?
- First how customers will view them (web, pdf, xlsx, image, printed). Now i can at lest decide on colors and drilldowns.

2.	A report contains many columns and does not fit in the width of the page or the screen. What solution can you offer the client?
- Arrange colums in two or more rows. If report becomes too long - show/hide some information on click.

3.	The client liked a pie chart in the test database that shows quarterly sales of 12 products over one and a half years. The client’s
database contains data on the customers they gathered for at least 8 years for 10 000 products. How must you implement the chart for it not
to disappoint the client with real data?
- I need to reduce number of groups on both axis. Maybe use different chart type. It depends on data and what client wants to compare.

4.	What controls mustn’t be used if a report is to be sent to print or PDF forms?
- No interactive controls (show/expand additional data). Add headers, footers, page numbers.

5.	The client has a chain of stores in USA, Canada, Germany and other countries. Business users view reports in regional offices. The
main base has the “SaleDate DateTime” field. How to display the date according to the following formats? 
     a. In the US format (mm/dd/yyyy) for everyone 
     b. In a regional format for each office.
- Expression "=User!Language" works fine. Format reports based on it. If they got their own databases and reporting server default
format might work.


1.	The client views reports from the application using the “ReportViewer” control (a standard control). The report that the client
requested have, among other things, such parameters as “StartDate” and “EndDate”. The client’s database is rather large, there is a lot
of historical data, the report has an average level of difficulty. Which answers must you obtain in order to write the SQL part?
- Do they have multiple tables/databases (history and recent data), aggregated/precalculated data.

2.	Major customers of our client complain about the slow performance (or timeouts) of a legacy report. At a first glance, the report looks
like a summary report and is half a page long. It is said that the report has been running for a long time, but the problems started occurring
about a year ago. Since then they have had to periodically increase the timeouts. What would you do?
- Make sure this is a database problem (no aggregations and filters in report). If they got no DBA check DB for query and execution plan.
Add/Rebuild statistics/indexes, add indexed view or whatever (script to precalculate this at night).

3.	The client views reports from the application using the “ReportViewer” control (a standard control). The report is presented in the form
of operations statement for a certain period and can consist of a thousand pages. The report’s footer has “TotalPages”, and “Totals” and
“Subtotals” are calculated in the report itself. The client requests to add a “DocumentMap” for a more convenient navigation inside the large
report. How will you do it?
- Add labels for groups with "Totals" and "Subtotals". Put totals on group header insted of footer.

4.	The client has 200 reports. They request to add a footer (with a number of the current page) to every report. How will you do it?
- If they got "Report Part" for this i will use it. If not i can update *.rdl files with new "<PageFooter>" using text editor. Or add
report part with text editor for every report in case they want to change font tomorrow.